Kafka Message Queuing Demo on AWS
John Cavanaugh
2018-05-22


This demo demonstrates the transfer of data into AWS with Kafka.  It
will run the producer on the "Ground" station (e.g. a laptop), the
broker (server) on an AWS EC2 instance, and the consumer on a second
EC2 instance.

To run the demo, start up two EC2 instances on AWS.  Use the search
function in the AWS Marketplace, search for "Kafka", and use one of
the Debian images.  Set up a security group that allows incoming
traffic on these ports:

    Port         Source         Description
    ----         ------         -----------
    22           Ground         SSH
    2181         Ground         Zookeeper
    9092         Anywhere       Kafka
    All traffic  Members of SG  Misc. traffic

Unfortunately, I have not found a more restrictive rule for port 9092
that allows Kafka to run.  Be sure to enable assignment of public IP
addresses.  You may also find it useful to allow ICMP Echo Requests
and Echo Replies so you can ping the EC2 instances.

Once the AWS instances are running, designate one for the server
and the other for the consumer.  Get both the external and AWS 
internal IP addresses of the server node and the external IP address
of the consumer node.  You may use the domain names if you prefer.  Set
up the demo with these commands:
    cd <path>/kafka-demo
    . .setup
    kafka-ec2-setup <Server external IP> <Server internal IP> <Consumer 

This will create scripts with the correct IP addresses, copy the
demo directory to the consumer, and restart the Kafka server with the
configuration file for the demo.  Start the producer on your ground
station with:
    cd <path>/kafka-demo
    . .setup
    kafka-producer

The producer will give you a prompt and you may type messages as
you like.  Log on to the consumer with:
    ec2-consumer
    cd kafka-demo
    . .setup
    kafka-consumer

You will see any messages you've already typed at the producer.  Type
more messages at the producer and you will see them appear at the
consumer.  Demonstrate that the consumer can replay the messages by
killing and restarting it.  You will see all the messages that the
producer sent.

